Well, it is great to be back.
Um, I know last week was our surf Sunday.
We had such a good Sunday being
able to serve our community and,
um, be able to watch some kiddos.
Um, I know our kiddos enjoyed it
as well, and I'm excited to be back
this week to continue our series
and the book of first Timothy.
So if you have your Bible with you,
um, go to first Timothy chapter one.
Um, we're going to be in
chapter two and we're going to
cover the rest of the verses.
So we read two weeks ago verses one
through seven in chapter two of Timothy,
but we only covered really the first two.
And I'd say I kind of covered the
third verse, but we're going to
come back and cover the third verse
all the way down to verse seven.
And we started with two weeks
ago of the priority of prayer.
Part one.
So there's a part two today, and it's
going to be interesting as we begin to
pull this together, we're going to talk
about the priority of prayer on the front
end and the back end to kind of bring this
together of what we're talking about that,
but there's so much good, um, things to
talk about today, then I'm hoping, um, we
can dive into in each one of us will walk
away, just changed and challenged by this.
And so again, we picked up two
weeks ago where we talked about
this idea, whatever we prioritize.
Shows us what we believe is
most important, our life,
whatever we prioritize.
Shows us what's most
important in our lives.
And if you want to know,
what do you prioritize?
You need to check at least two things.
Number one, your bank account,
number two, your calendar.
And if you don't have a calendar,
then basically whatever you do.
Right.
Um, but those are two things you'll
begin to realize your priorities
and family you're prioritizing work
or your kids' activities, or, you
know, you name it or your Amazon
habit, whatever it is that you press.
Becomes the what's most important
in your life, what we tend to find.
And so, you know, I'm the one
that struggles with this as well.
What we tend to find is prayer
is not on their prayers, usually
a low priority in our lives.
It's a response to all
the other priorities.
So let me give you an example.
If I'm having financial problems, I pray.
If I'm having car troubles, I
pray I'm having work struggles.
I pray.
So as the result of my priority, Prayer
becomes the priority of a necessity
rather than a need or on the front end.
So what we've been really trying to
change, or our thinking on is over
the last couple weeks is this idea
behind why should we prioritize prayer?
What is valuable about it?
Um, and, and I think through this,
this idea, and I'm want to continue
to challenge each one of us.
Through church, prayer, our time
with God in this way that it's not
something we have to do or something
we should do, but it's something
we see that is valuable to us.
So we don't pray because we have to,
but because it's valuable in our lives.
And here's an example for you.
This is something that I've been applying
over the last year, approximately the
last year, I've really been trying to
prioritize three things, quality sleep.
Quality food and exercise.
Here's the reason why there was a
time where my mental, physical and
psychological state was struggling.
I was just imbalanced.
I was just not sleeping well.
I was always hungry and
moody and it seemed like.
Um, I just was struggling spiritually
and I just, and I realized these
are three areas I needed to get.
Right.
Am I perfect with them?
No, but as I begin to prioritize
them, the end result produce positive
results, mentally, physically,
and spiritually in my life.
Well, I'll I'll how did I even figure
out if that worked one, I had to begin
to prioritize those things, to see
if it worked and it became valuable
to me that I want to repeat it.
So let's apply this to.
If we think, okay, well, prayer, you
know, prioritize in prayer can be
valuable to me, but we never attempt to
prioritize it, to see if it's valuable.
It becomes this.
Oh, I should.
Or I ought to, or because I'm
a Christian or because I go to
church, I should do these things
and we never really experienced it.
Well, my challenge for you today
is to test the Lord in this is
to take prayer and say, how do
I begin to prioritize it first?
Because that's what Paul
talks about in this text.
First of all, then.
And to prioritize it.
And as you begin to prioritize
it in your life, begin to reflect
on how valuable will be become.
So we're going to kind of see through
today how valuable it truly is.
So two weeks ago, just to kind of.
Is a and part one, there's a
couple of things that we talked
about in the priority of prayer.
We talked about this, we
talked about what is prayer.
Prayer is a conversation with God.
We talked about how we can pray through
petitions, prayers, intercessions,
and Thanksgiving, which we delve
dove into those a little bit deeper.
And so I'm not going to go
into deeper, but there's
different ways that we can pray.
Uh, we also learned that what our
outward posture should be when we pray.
Right.
And we talked about
our, our posture prayer.
Uh, a reflection of our inward
posture, which means if we're
praising, maybe our, our posture
prayers should be our hands up.
If we're surrendering, maybe we should
be on the ground with our heads down.
If we're, if we're giving
Thanksgiving, maybe it's our hands out.
I don't know what it is, but we look at
this and the fact of prayer, our outward.
Or look should look very much like
what our inward heart and praying is.
We'll learn about where we can pray.
And the cool part that we learned is
we can pray anywhere because a lot of
times we try to say, the only time I
can pray is when I have five minutes
or 10 minutes to go in the closet on
my knees with my eyes closed, which
I suggest that you work into your.
But if that's the only time you'll
pray, you'll never find time
to pray and prioritize prayer.
So we learned that praying can
happen anywhere in the car at
work at home in the church.
We learned who we can pray for
this text was very specific.
We can pray for everyone, but
specifically Paul talked about,
especially those in authority over
us, especially those in authority.
And also we learned why we should
pray to help us live in peace
and at peace with everyone.
And to please, God, those were the
last things that we talked about in
this text, really spoke about that.
So as we continue to study
through this text, we're going
to continue to talk more about.
Y we should prioritize the prayer
and the value that it brings
into our lives and how we can
begin to apply that to our lives.
So we're going to jump into
this text and read today.
I'm going to start with verse one
so we can kind of catch everybody
up and then we're going to jump in.
So it says this in first Timothy
chapter two, verse one, it says,
first of all, then I urge that
petitions, prayers, intercessions,
and Thanksgivings be made for.
For Kings and all those who
are in authority so that we may
lead a tranquil and quiet life
in all godliness and dignity.
This is good.
And it pleases God, our savior
who wants everyone to be saved and
to come to the knowledge of the.
Where there is one God and one mediator
between God and humanity, the man Christ
Jesus who gave himself as a ransom
for all a testimony at the proper time
for this, I was appointed a Herald
and an apostle I'm telling the truth.
I'm not lying.
And a teacher of the Gentiles
and faith and in truth.
So let's pray before we jump
into this text, Lord Jesus.
We are praying today.
That your will be done well,
we're praying today, not free to
bless what we are bringing Lord.
We are praying that you
bring what you bless Lord.
And we are praying that we are here to
have an open heart, to hear it, to be
transformed by it and to go out and live
accordingly to it because we see its
value and our lives and those around us.
So Lord, we love you and we
pray this in your heavenly name.
Amen.
So we see in this first
part is prioritizing.
Prayer can lead people.
To salvation, right?
It can lead people to
salvation, salvation of people.
And so I want to kind of bring this
story together because one of the things
cool about walking through a book of
the Bible is that it all works together.
So context is important.
So number one, Paul, the apostle,
um, wrote this letter to Timothy
his true son in the face.
Somebody that he most believe led to
faith in Christ that came on missionary.
Paul that he trained up as a disciple
and see Timothy was an emphasis.
We actually went to the first,
or we went through the book
of Ephesians, a couple of.
Well, probably six, eight months ago,
we started walking through it and
finished it a couple of months ago.
Um, and in that book, we realized
that this was a difficult church
and the reason why it was a
difficult churches, cause there was
a lot of worldly things going on.
And specifically for Timothy, he was
the pastor of this church and Paul
was saying, Hey, I want to encourage
you and give you direction and wisdom
on how to get lead your church.
And he said, first of all, you
need to address false teachers.
And so that was the first thing that
he says, Hey, Timothy, stay in emphasis
and address these false teachers with.
And he says, now, Timothy, I'm
going to teach you what truth is.
So he begins to dive into the
gospel and that's when Paul shared
his testimony and he began to
say, this is what the gospel is.
It's transformed my life.
It's changed me and it
can change everyone.
God saved me so that
it can change everyone.
But then he reminded Timothy,
don't forget your call.
Don't forget what God's done in your life.
Timothy, to give you the power and the
encouragement to go out and, and address
these false teachers and to teach them.
And then he gets into chapter two and
he says, but before all this Timothy,
first of all, pray how many of y'all are
like me, where you want to go to work.
You want to get the tasks done, and then
you want to reflect and go, Lord, bless.
That's me.
I want to go, we, we had mission teams
come in a week and it's all I've been
thinking about is what tasks can they do?
What tasks can they do?
And all of a sudden, the Lord's like,
what prayer are you praying to get
wisdom, to have the right tasks that
those mission teams to do to fulfill
the mission that God's called us to do?
Oh man, Lord, I'm sorry.
Like I, I miss that even
in the midst of preaching.
So you understand this pastors
don't preach texts, that they
feel like they've gotten.
Pastors preached texts that
they're dealing with and
struggling with alongside you.
And then they have the responsibility
now to share with you and to also
labor alongside you in learning
how to prioritize these things.
So even as a pastor, I'm learning
how to prioritize prayer.
So here we are in the text.
Paul is saying, first of all, pray,
and I want to challenge you with this.
I want to ask this question.
If you were 100%.
That praying for someone
would change their lives.
Would you do it by raising hands?
If you knew 100%, if you prayed for
someone, it would change the lives.
What'd you do it.
Great.
Majority of us would, but based upon
if you were to think back through
what you're prioritizing your life,
does your life show that priority
that you truly believe that that
somebody's life will be changed if you.
And that's not just a, like, shot at you.
That's really just a conviction
where we have to begin to say, we
say one thing, but we do another.
And that's where you
hear this word hypocrite.
And then I look at myself and go, man,
how many times do I say one thing yet?
I do another.
So I don't really believe what I say.
So I want you to see where Paul connects
these two verses the first two verses
of this talks about praying, right?
Priorities and prayer.
The second two verses Paul's
prioritizing the idea behind that.
Is a desire of God's heart and
it pleases him, but he desires
for everyone to be saved.
So when we pray, what this
connection makes is that we should
pray for people to be saved.
And that if we do, God will give
them the opportunity to be saved.
Here's what God says.
He desires that everyone come to
faith in Christ, every single person.
Now does that mean every person will
come to faith in Christ that we pray for.
But here's what I do believe that
when we pray that person will
get the opportunity to respond.
That's my person conviction based upon
the word of God, that if we pray for
someone to be saved, that they will
have the opportunity to be saved.
Now here's the interesting part is we
begin to look at this many of our prayers.
We pray, we tend to pray them
and we walk away hoping someone
else fulfills that prayer.
Now I'm going to step ahead
and I'm going to come back.
If all you can do is pray to
affect someone's life, pray.
Cause there's some times when you pray and
there's nothing else you can do to change.
Good example.
Right now, we want to pray
for our leaders, right?
The leaders across the world.
Yes.
We can donate and do
some things like that.
But honestly, I can't go to Ukraine and
do anything about there specifically,
so I can pray for their leadership.
I can't change their
leadership outside of.
So do that, don't neglect and
doing that, but there are certain
things we can do when we pray.
And here's just an example.
When we moved here, we prayed
for our neighbors to be saved.
But when we pray for our neighbors
to be saved, guess what we started
doing, we connected with our neighbors.
We shared the gospel with her neighbors
now because we're trying to like,
just convince them of something.
Cause that's why we're here.
We're literally because we love them
and we desire for them to know Jesus.
So here's another one you
can pray for your marriage.
If you've ever had marriage issues,
you should pray for your marriage.
But a lot of times here's our prayer.
Lord, change his heart.
Lord, change her heart.
Lord, can he treat me better?
Can he respect me?
Can she respects me?
And here's what God wants you to do.
Yes.
Pray those prayers.
But here's what I would
challenge you to pray.
Lord, help me be the solution to
the problem that I'm praying about.
Many times we neglect and prayer.
The response that God gives
us this sometimes says you've
already been given the ability to
affect the answer to that prayer.
That challenged me when I started thinking
through that, that challenged me a lot.
So when I ask this question, what's
another example that you can think
of when you think of praying for
something and you have the ability
to help change the situation when
you pray maybe a past prayer that.
Somebody's got to have one
here, reconciliation, right?
Between another person
that maybe is wrong.
Do you?
Right.
That's a great example because again,
we're typically one-sided in our
prayers and we want that person to
change, but in the process of praying.
Person God's speaking back to
us about what can you do now?
You can't fully help reconcile
that situation cause it takes two.
But in that you have the ability
to take steps towards that.
But again, I'll just come back to, I
do know that sometimes when we pray,
we don't have the ability to affect
change, but we know that prayer
changes lives, prayer changes lives.
So with that knowledge,
that prayer changes life.
Is there anything that should
stop us from prioritizing prayer?
Anything there isn't.
Been reading this book and I didn't plan
to share this, but I've been reading this
book called undistracted by Bob Goff.
He just wrote this book and I follow him.
And there's some things
that I totally agree with.
There's some things that seem a little bit
different, but this undistracted book is,
is really challenging me because what he's
saying is we are distracted from doing
the most important things in our lives.
And we're sacrificing the
great for the good or the.
Too many times in our Christian walks.
Here's what happens.
And again, so, you know, I'm speaking
to myself in this, as we prioritize
coming to church, we prioritize
praying because we have to in reading
because we have to and giving, because
that's what we think we need to do.
We prioritize those things
with the wrong heart.
We are so distracted by those things
that we think are tasks that God
wants us to get a check mark for.
Then the heart behind those.
We're even distracted for.
We all just agreed.
We should prioritize prayer.
We see the value.
It changes lives, but many of us,
and almost say all of us, many of
us are saying, but I don't do it.
So my challenge to myself and my
challenge to you is as I've been
praying to this Lord, how do I
start looking to things in my life?
And saying, those things are
distraction from what's best.
That can not only change my life, but
you can change someone else's life.
And that is where we're going
to continue to land today.
So first three coming out of verse three,
Paul says, pray for everyone, right?
And he uses this word in verse three.
That it's good.
And as I began to study
this word, it's good.
It sounds simple.
But as you begin to study it,
the word good is actually.
It's excellent.
It's useful.
It's praiseworthy.
It's.
So Paul's basically saying praying
is an awesome, amazing thing,
because it can change your life.
It is good.
It is beautiful.
But then he says it can please God.
And so praying pleases God,
why would we want to please?
God.
Well, number one, because it shows our
dependence upon him when we accept Christ
and we say, okay, Lord, we understand
that you are the one that created.
For a divine purpose.
We know that you are the resource
to be able to fulfill that purpose.
That you're the one that
guides and directs our lives.
When we pray it's, it's, it's giving
ownership over our lives, back to him
and that pleases him, that honors him.
And so really when we look at this, it
shows that we know that God is the one
that can make the difference prayers,
not about pleasing the world, pleasing
someone else sounding religious.
So if somebody ever asks you to pray and
you're like, ah, I struggle with prayer.
Prayer's not about the right words.
It's about the right attitude.
So my encouragement is when
somebody says, Hey, will you pray?
Pray?
And sometimes I love it.
My young son, son in here, Sterling,
whenever he praise, sometimes he praise
her for some of the funniest things,
but here's what I love about it.
His desire to pray.
It's not about the words that he says,
but it's the desire in his heart.
And too many times we think, well,
what if I don't say the right word?
What if I say something stupid?
Here's the thing you will.
If we understand that we're going to
quote unquote fail or make mistakes
before we ever make them, we can
actually just be okay with that.
And when you're in a room full of
people like this, that does life
that knows, Hey, um, I know that,
uh, Amanda and Matt make mistakes.
So if, if I make mistakes too,
they're not going to judge me.
Don't say, don't you do.
Okay.
They're not gonna.
But you get in a community like
that, where we all know that
we're going to make mistakes.
It's the place in which we can
do life together because we're
not here to judge one another.
We're here to build one another up now.
So, you know, we will speak truth
into each other's life out of love,
because why we desire for you to
experience God in an amazing way.
Not because we're judgmental,
but because we love you so much.
And because you love me so much,
you'll do the same thing for me.
So if you trip over your words, We've all
done it and we'll do it again next week.
And the week after that.
And the week after that, and
that's okay because that's who we
are and that's why we need God.
So prayer is about fulfilling
God's plans on earth, right?
It's not about fulfilling ours.
It's about fulfilling
God's plans on earth.
So let me ask this question.
What are God's plans
that he wants to fulfill?
Anybody know?
What are God's plans that
he wants you to feel.
Says it in verse four, somebody, somebody
repeat, what is verse four, say God's
ultimate plan is for everyone to be
saved, to understand the truth, right?
To see us many people saved and to
understand the knowledge and truth.
God's plan on earth.
Now here's the thing.
I believe that God's deepest desire
is for everyone to be saved, right.
And receive that knowledge.
And that's where we see in verse four,
since creation, God has desired every
person to know their, why they've been
created and what they were created.
Ever since creation, why were we
created and what we were created for?
So I started thinking through that and
I want to just kind of walk through
that a little bit, and I've got to
believe this will really point to some
things for us, as we think through this
as your why, like, why was I created?
And so I broke this down
to the three relationships.
We were created to enjoy relationship
with God, to enjoy a relationship
with this creation and to draw,
enjoy a relationship with.
And here's the interesting thing
without the fall happening.
So the fall is Adam and Eve
shows the disobeyed God, and they
broke their relationship and they
were kicked out of the garden of
Eden without the fall happening.
The why is the what for us?
The why is the, what?
Which means this?
We were created for relationship with
God, for relationship with his creation
of a relationship with other people.
When the fall happened, it changed
God, then gave us a mission to
help others discover Arthur.
And they're what, so what I kind of
break this down, so you can kind of
see it from a biblical standpoint,
but to enjoy a relationship with
God, we were created for that right.
To walk and peace with him.
It says in the beginning, the
Adam and Eve walked in peace with
God and to have complete access
to God, to his love and his grace
and his mercy and his forgiveness.
We were created.
That's why we were created to
have a relationship with God.
Number two, a relationship to have
a relationship with other people.
Well, where's that in the Bible?
Well, the Bible talks about early
again, I'm going to speak back to
Genesis where Adam was created in, and
God said that he was not to be alone.
It wasn't good for him to be alone.
So they tried fountain finding to help.
Mate, finally knocks Adam
out with a stone on the set.
As my guests just knocked him, flat
out, took a rib out, just so you
guys know this is how new I was
in my relationship with Christ.
When I read that story, I
started thinking I had one.
I'm serious.
I started checking my ribs.
I thought I had one less rib.
Cause I thought every guy had one less rib
because that's how the wife was created.
I have all the number of ribs I needed,
but again, I was willing to be stupid
to just figure these things out.
Um, I don't even know where I was
going with that, but so he, he
makes the, the, the woman, right.
And he says, this is right.
You were built for relationship.
And he says, be fruitful and multiply
and roll over everything together.
So the world was not only created
for relationship, but the also
related, uh, created for, uh, the
creation to enjoy the creation.
And so this is the interesting part.
So I'm gonna kind of balance this.
We were in ju uh, created
to enjoy creation.
So this means this is it.
Okay.
As a Christian to actually enjoy.
Yes.
I used to think coming to faith
in Christ, man, I lost all my fun.
And I realized coming to faith in
Christ gave me so much more joy than
I could ever get from the creation.
So here's the example.
So many times in the world, we worship a
creation that is failing, that will fail
you, that will deteriorate and fall away.
When we can worship the creator,
which will never fail you,
that will never fall away.
That will never die.
So God has said you can enjoy
creation the beauty and the
glory and all the cool things.
We have, all the technology, we
have it, as long as it doesn't
become the thing we worship.
See that's when we get things out of line.
So we were created.
Why were we created for
relationship with God?
Let's ship with creation,
listed with other.
But when the fall happened,
the what came into to life.
And so this is the cool part, what
we were created for as to help
others discover hope in Jesus, to
help them learn that they can help
others discover that same hope.
So when you break that down just a little
bit, this idea behind once the fall
happened, That relationship with God, the
perfect relationship with God, the perfect
relationship with creation, the perfect
relationship with others was broken.
And those of us that now have been
restored through Jesus back to
that original relationship with
God we're creation and other people
now have hope now had the right
relationship that so many people
are missing and God has given us.
This hope to share with
others the what to go help.
Every other person that we know,
discover that same hope in Jesus
to live in freedom, to live in
forgiveness, to live in peace and
patience and goodness and kindness and
all these things that God gives us.
So God never created us
just to receive salvation.
If that's all he created us for
guaranteed, this is what would
happen in every church services.
Somebody get their life to Christ.
Somebody give their life to Christ.
Bam.
Wouldn't that be like crazy,
like, oh, they accepted Christ.
Bam, they're gone, but he left you here.
You woke up this morning.
You're here.
God's not done with you yet, but God,
I mean, I fulfilled like my, why?
I mean a real issue with you.
I have relationship with creation.
I have relationship with other people.
Um, good, great.
But what God's saying is, but your
neighbors not, and maybe somebody
in your church right now is.
And maybe your husband's not, or your
wife's not, or your child's not, I, I
remember hearing this one of our first
sort of going to church, I can already
tell you today's gonna be a long message.
I'm gonna try to go shorter.
Um, I remember a lot of the older people,
and this is not a getting knocked to them.
This is just the way that they
would think they were like, I
can't wait for heaven to come.
I hope it comes tomorrow.
And I would get emotional and
be like, I hope it doesn't.
They're like why there's
still somebody else.
I want to tell.
I don't want them to miss out.
And so for me, like, I don't
want that to happen tomorrow.
One day, one day, I want to be
with the Lord and heaven and man,
there'll be no fear, no pain.
I want one to be there, but oh
God, please don't be tomorrow
because there's one more friend.
There's one more neighbor.
There's one more person in this
service that I want them to know.
Jesus.
See, that's, that's what I believe
that God is saying through Paul.
He desires that if we will prioritize
prayer, because it changes lives that we
will start seeing more and more people
come to know Jesus and experience the
hope that we've experienced their why.
And they get to be a part of the what and
helping others discover hope in Jesus.
So cool.
How that all comes together.
I started thinking through this
when we come to faith in Jesus and
we know the knowledge and truth,
we're a lot like soldiers who
are trained and ready to go into.
Started thinking about when we come
to faith in Jesus and we begin to
understand knowledge and truth.
We're a lot like doctors who are trained
for years and years and years to go out
and change lives through healthy things
that they begin to, prescriber surgeries
they do, or eyes, they fix whatever it is.
Right.
But imagine this a soldier to be
trained a doctor to be trained and
to never go fulfill their call.
Crazy.
Why wouldn't they do that?
That's what they were
trained for every day.
That you wake up and you're
still alive and you're breathing.
You're a soldier, you're a doctor.
You're a, whatever your profession
is, the in that God's going to use
that to go into battle, to help
other people discover hope in Jesus.
See, God's not done with us yet.
He's ready for us to be a part
of seeing other people be saved.
So we have such an amazing
purpose to help others.
Experience in eternity with God.
And each of us, I believe is
here for one of two reasons.
Number one, you're either here to receive
the knowledge and truth to be saved.
Your why maybe you haven't
given your life to Christ.
Maybe today's the day where
you're like, I see it.
So maybe you're here for that today,
or there's the other group of us
that is here to help learn how to
help others discover hope in Jesus.
The only two reasons why you should be
here not to just continue to, to just sit
and receive, but to receive and to give.
And I believe both of those starts with.
The first one, when it comes
to giving your life to Christ
starts with the prayer, doesn't
have to be your eyes closed.
It just has to be a confession to
the Lord of your need for Jesus.
Didn't he be forgiven of your sins
and to be able to walk in truth
and knowledge for the other group,
that's given your life to Christ.
It's a prayer of boldness.
It's a prayer of clarity on where
to go share that hope it's a, it's
a confidence, whatever it is that
you need to be able to receive from
the Lord direction starts with the.
See, this text is very clear that Paul
is saying prioritize prayer because
our greatest call in life is to help
other people discover hope in Jesus.
I think I could stop right there
in the message and be done,
but we're going to keep going.
So how do we know what to share that?
Maybe the question, how do we know?
What does.
So that other people can be saved.
And I love how Paul answers that
question and verses five and six.
And he says this for there is one
God and one mediator between God
and humanity, the man Christ Jesus,
who gave himself as a ransom for
all a testimony at the proper time.
So the knowledge and truth is
that Jesus is the only way to
relationship with God, the knowledge
and truth that you need to share.
The hope of Jesus with other
people is that there's only
a way to God through Jesus.
In order to know God and
experience his love, grace mercy,
forgiveness, hope, joy, blessing.
I could have kept reading
and writing things.
We have to accept Jesus who
was our mediator between God.
Most of you may know this,
or may not know this.
And the old Testament time, there was
a priest that was the mediator that had
to come to the priest to be able to have
access to God and be able to communicate
with God, God removed that and placed.
And see, we didn't have to come to
Jesus to bring sacrifices anymore.
God used Jesus as the ultimate
sacrifice to have access to God.
So now we see this is clearly stating
that Jesus has now our mediator.
The only way to get to God, to talk
with God, to have a relationship
with God is through Jesus.
Sort of thinking about this.
Some may think that is narrow-minded.
If you live enough in this world,
there are so many different
beliefs to God and someone to
believe that always lead to heaven.
I think that complicates things.
I believe this is clear and simple.
I love clear and simple.
And this is what I would always
say too, is if you're wondering,
is there multiple ways to heaven?
Why is it only Jesus?
And I'll tell you this, the reason why
I can tell you it's Jesus is because
I have tested and tried to many people
sit outside and they want to point
to Jesus is not the only way, but how
many of you have actually tried that?
Those who have said, have
you, have you actually tried?
I always tell people, try it.
What do you mean.
Get around people who know Jesus start
looking at their lives, stars, seeing
them share testimonies where God shows up,
where he makes a difference in their life.
And you go, man, I don't know,
but God's doing something
through this guy named Jesus.
But in many times we want to
be on the outside and say,
maybe there's multiple ways.
I look at this as clear and cut.
I love simple the way
to God's through Jesus.
And we don't have to
wonder, you can know that.
And verse six clearly tells
us it's not really about us.
It's about Jesus.
Jesus did all the work.
He came at the proper time, right?
The right time.
He paid a ransom and this
is what it really means when
he says he paid a ransom.
It says a life for our lives.
A ransom is what is given for
another, as a price of his redemption.
So Jesus gave his so that we can have
ours back and spend an eternity with God.
See Jesus said this that he says, and
I love this at the end of verse six, he
says, who gave himself as a ransom for
all his desire is that all would be saved.
Jesus paid the price we couldn't in
order to save us from eternal punishment,
being separated from him forever.
We've been talking about this for a couple
of weeks and I think it was two weeks ago.
We really talked about this.
We complicated.
I think sometimes we complicate what
it means to give our lives to Jesus.
I told you I was the same way.
I spent a year in the church and
every time I become and I would
hear the gospel, here's what I would
think, man, I got to stop doing
this and I got to stop doing that.
And man, I got to fix this and
I got to not use that word.
And probably not that
word, maybe not that one.
Um, and so like, it was all these things
that I had to do and changing, and I
started looking at it as a negative.
But then something changed.
And I realized that I started seeing the
things that God was going to give me and
how I actually didn't have to do anything.
God was already doing that in me.
And through me, like those
words, just weren't words anymore
that I really wanted to use.
And those things weren't things I
really wanted to do anymore because I
saw God replacing them with something
more, something better when we.
It is less than what God has for you.
When we talk about sin, it's not about
all man, you're such a bad person.
It's really all, man.
You're missing the best
that God has for you.
That's what God reminded me.
So I gave up the second best or the
third best, or really the last best.
And I got the best, best through Jesus.
See, sometimes we make salvation too
difficult is truly just believing
who God is and how God sent his son.
Jesus.
To help us know him, have access to him to
be forgiven of the sin and the difficulty
of trying to live in this world.
A life that we struggle with every
day and to begin to trust the Lord, to
do that through us and to give us the
hope and peace and joy and comfort and
forgiveness, all these things to help
us not only change our lives to this
side of heaven, but to change others.
So here's the interesting thing
as we kind of in today, and we're
not closing, but we're ending.
So I'm kind of getting there.
Paul gives us this last verse and it talks
about really our calling specifically, but
Paul really just talks about his calling.
See, just to kind of summarize
this with Paul's story.
Paul was the worst of the worst of the
worst of sinners and God saved him.
And Paul didn't just say,
Lord, thank you for saving me.
I can't wait to get to heaven to
spend the rest of my life with you.
He took up his cross and he
began to fulfill his call.
And this is one way in which
he did it here in verse seven.
Paul says this, he says for, I
was appointed a Herald and upon.
And I love how he says this.
I'm telling the truth and I'm not lying.
And a teacher of the
Gentiles in faith and truth.
So Paul's calling was a Herald.
I looked that up.
I thought it was a person or some kind
of hairdo, but it was neither one.
So I had to look at a little bit
deeper and it's really a Harold is a
preacher, a messenger or an ambassador.
I promise to leave my jokes at home now.
Um, the next thing he
talks about as apostle.
So an apostle is just one with
authority since they had seen Christ
after he had rose from the dead.
Also, we see that he's a teacher
concerning the truths of God
and the responsibility of man.
And he says to the Gentiles,
so what are Gentiles?
Anybody?
That's not a Jew, anybody that was
not really the people of Israel.
And so if you're not.
Uh, Jew, you're a Gentile basically.
Right?
So Paul was called to be a teacher, a
preacher, a messenger, an ambassador,
an apostle to us through his word
and to those he was talking to,
and it says in faith and truth.
And again, these are things that
were mentioned above it's through
the knowledge and truth that,
that he was speaking of earlier.
So Paul's a great example
of someone we can call.
So he understood what he was called to do.
So then what's our calling.
What's our calling.
I want to give you a couple of verses
and I don't think I had them put up here.
It's my fault.
So if you want to, I actually
want you to turn to one of these.
If you have your Bible with
you, you have your phone.
I want you to turn to second Corinthians
chapter five, starting in verse 17.
I'm going to read that one second,
but I'm going to summarize the
next one that I want to share with
you with most of us know, right.
Is the great commission,
Matthew 28, 18 through 20.
Speaks of this.
He says Jesus.
At the end of his life, after his
resurrection, I guess it's after his life,
death, resurrection, before he ascends to
heaven, he says to his disciples, he says
to go there for, and make disciples of all
nations, baptizing them and name of the
father, son, the holy spirit and teaching
them all the things I've commanded you.
And lo I will be with you wherever you go.
That may be a KJV low word.
I don't even know, but.
That's the great commission.
That's what God has given every one
of us, but many of us, again, I'm
this person knew reading my Bible back
whenever I'd give my life to Christ.
And I see this and go
that's for the disciples.
That's like for the pastors.
Right?
So who's who w where, where else?
I mean, again, I think he's
talking to all of this.
It's still got me thinking.
Where's another verse that talks
about what our true calling is.
I love second Corinthians
five 17 through 21.
So here's what it says.
Therefore, if anyone is in
Christ, let's stop right there.
If you've given your life to Christ, if
you would leave here today and say, man,
I know Jesus, I've given my life to him.
Paul speaking to you.
Not to just leaders, not to
apostles, not to just teachers,
he's teaching, talking to all of us.
So let's go forward.
It says, therefore, if anyone is
in Christ, he is a new creation.
The oldest passed away
and see the new has come.
Everything is from God who has reconciled
us to himself through Christ and has
given us the ministry of reconciliation.
I'm going to keep going.
That is in Christ.
God was reconciling the world to himself,
not counting their trespasses against him.
And he has committed the
message of reconciliation to us.
The church.
Therefore, we are ambassadors.
I remember that word from Paul.
He was a Herald, which is
another word for ambassador.
We're just like Paul we're
ambassadors for Christ.
Since God is making his appeal through
us, we plead on Christ's behalf.
Be reconciled to God.
He made the one who did not
know sin to be sin for us.
That in him, we might become
the righteousness of God.
Our calling is clear.
I say this every time we are
responsible for that, which we have
been shared with and the things we
don't know don't understand yet.
It's okay.
But today we've all given the
responsibility of this reconciliation.
Our call is clear.
We each have a part in helping other
people be reconciled back to God.
It starts though with us
being reconciled to God.
So this is how I want to conclude.
Because I think it's clear
the message is clear, but I'm
gonna bring this back around.
How is prioritizing prayer,
a part of all of this?
Let me just kind of walk
through this with my own life.
I am the result of someone else's
answered prayer, and I've shared that
with you before, but I'm going to
walk through this with these verses.
I'm a result of someone else's
answer prayer, prayer, because
they prioritized prayer and it
was good and pleasing to God.
Because it led me to being saved,
which was God's ultimate desire.
And the person that prayed
for me is ultimate desire.
I received the truth and knowledge
of God as I begin that relationship
with him, which was God's desire.
And I began to learn why I was
created and what I was created for.
And I took that knowledge and truth and
begin to fulfill my calling to where I
am today to reconcile people back to God.
Not because I'm.
That is one role in the church that
God has called me to, but God has
not only called me to help other
people be reconciled back to God.
He has called every
one of us in this room.
Here's one of the coolest things I believe
each of you are in this service because
of someone else has answered prayer.
And if you want to know, who's mine, my
families, a lot of people in this church
to help start this church prayed for you.
Maybe not by name.
They begin to pray for, for people to
be safe for people to know who Jesus
is, to experience the hope and joy
and peace that we've all experienced.
We begin to pray for you
two, three years ago.
And for some of you are here
today to respond to that.
One of the coolest things, as I
begin to think through this is
there's actually people in this
room who have been reconciled back
to God because of our prayers that
had begin to understand their.
And are starting to experience being
part of the, what it's so cool.
How this flows through that people are
being reconciled back to God because
of a faithful prayer three years ago.
And there's more people now that
are coming and being reconciled
back to God to start this whole
process over process over together.
Again, why is prayer important?
Why should we prioritize prayer?
It changes like.
It changes lives.
There is someone I'm just gonna tell
you right now there, someone, I love
saying this and you guys may get tired
of it, but there is someone waiting
on you on the other side of you boldly
praying for God to change their life.
And after you pray it, I believe
this is what God's saying.
How can I be a part of it?
You leave that prayer and you say, Lord,
you do what only you can do, but I'm going
to do what I can through that powerful.
And then I'm going to start sharing.
I'm going to start inviting.
I'm going to start connecting.
I'm going to love them.
I'm going to be generous.
I'm just going to live my life out
for Christ to be the light of Christ.
I'm going to pursue Christ.
So they, it permeates out of my life
and it changes that person's life.
I believe that is what
God is calling us to do.
To say, you know what?
I'm gonna look at my priorities
this week and I'm going to
put number one with prayer.
I'm going to cover my work and prayer.
I'm going to cover my school in prayer.
I'm going to cover my friends and
prayer and my family and prayer.
And every one of my kids' activities
and prayer, so that when I go do those
things that the Lord leads and directs
my life, the Lord will work through my
life to help change those people's lives.
Reconcile them back to God.
You may struggle with this one
statement, but I don't know
enough knowledge and truth.
If you know enough to be saved,
if you know enough of what God's
done for you to share that God
will not let any word return, void
that and what you share in faith.
So what's our next step with this text.
I want to challenge a couple of
different things and we're going to pray.
Number one, both of the steps I'm going
to challenge you to start with prayer.
Number one is if you
haven't given your life to.
It starts with prayer.
It starts with saying, yes, Jesus.
Today.
I need you today.
I need to be forgiven of my sins.
I understand that that is holding me
down from the life that you have for me.
And today you need to
say, Lord, I'm yours.
I want to know you.
I want to experience hope, joy, peace,
patience, love all these things.
Forgiveness.
I want to experience that today for you.
That may be your next step.
And today is the day of salvation.
Do not let a pack.
Because you are not promised tomorrow.
And that is not a fear tactic.
That is a love tactic, because if you know
somebody who's walking in front of a car,
you're going to stop Marsha every week.
When I preach every time that I talked
to you during the week, I am wanting
to stop you from getting hit by a car.
And that may sound funny to you.
I don't just preach.
These things.
Cause that's what I do.
I told it because I believe it.
And I believe that God is calling
someone, some multiple people in this
room to come to know Jesus today.
The question is, where do you start?
Where does it start?
It starts with taking a next step.
Sometimes it seems like a leap.
The cool party is here.
We celebrate steps.
So what I am going to do, and I do
this every week and I'm challenging
somebody to be bold in their faith.
I don't have you close your
eyes, bow your head and.
If you want to do that, we
can do that during service.
I'm going to say this I'm
going to be in the back.
And if you get up during the song
service while we worship and you
come talk to me, nobody's going
to be whispering, pointing, going.
I wonder what they're doing.
They're going to celebrate.
So I challenge you.
If you need to know Jesus today,
you come back and talk to me.
You say, I don't maybe know it all, but
today I want to experience this hope.
I challenge you.
Don't.
Sissy out.
Don't, don't feel like somebody's
staring at you because we are only
staring to celebrate and praise God.
So I challenge you to take that next step.
And if I'm back there and three
people come up, there's going
to be three more people come up
and help me and talk with you.
I don't know who needs to know Jesus
today, but that may be your next step.
And that's the first
prayer you need to pray.
But if you have given your life to
Christ, and if you end up giving
your life to Christ today, your
next step is to begin to pray.
Pray.
We don't have to pray
with our eyes closed.
We don't have to lay
on the ground and pray.
We just need to pray.
However, God lays on our heart
because it shows our dependence
upon him that he wants to move.
And the people around you and you begin to
boldly pray every day and you prioritize
prayer to every aspect of your life.
Not with perfect words, but with
the right attitude of the heart,
and God will, God will, God will.
God will change lives.
I don't know about you.
But God wants to use you to
reconcile people back to him.
I think God is going to do some
amazing things through this church.
We'll prioritize sprayer to let's
pray, Lord Jesus, you are good.
You are God.
You know who in this room where
doesn't know you and who needs to
have the boldness to stand up and step
out and to say, I need to know you.
So Lord, I pray for that person today.
The, whenever I get done praying Lord
and I walked to the back that they don't
wait an extra second, but they get up and
they come and talk to me, Lord, I pray
the Lord, the enemy doesn't come in and
still their confidence and what they need.
Lord.
I also pray for the person in this
room who hears this today and hasn't
been prioritizing prayer, Lord.
I pray for that person not to leave out
of here, feeling burdened with guilt,
that they haven't prayed, but with
the opportunity of joy, leaving out of
here with the opportunity to pray Lord,
knowing that you've given them the clear
conviction that it will change lives.
If we prioritize it, Lord
help that person today.
Take that next step.
Every next step that we
take Lord towards you.
Lord you celebrate.
And we celebrate as a church.
God, I pray.
And the days and weeks to come,
that you continue to change lives
through our prayers because it
shows our dependence upon you.
So Lord Jesus, we pray
this in your heavenly name.
Amen.